# About me

I am a Senior Threat Researcher with [Trend Micro’s Forward-Looking Threat
Research (FTR)
team](http://www.trendmicro.com/vinfo/us/security/research-and-analysis/). The
FTR team is an elite team of researchers whose mission is to scout the future
of emerging technologies, striving to predict and prevent emerging security
risks and threats. On top of bleeding-edge research, the FTR team constantly
collaborates with law-enforcement agencies in cybercrime investigations. For
example, the FTR team [assisted the FBI in investigating and prosecuting the
SpyEye malware creator](http://blog.trendmicro.com/spyeye-arrest/), which is
believed to have infected an estimated 1.4 million computers in the United
States and abroad.

I have been involved in the computer security “circus” since 2005. Although
I enjoy doing research in really any area of computer security, looking back at
my research track it seems that my main interests revolve around various topics
under the “cyber security” and "cyber crime" umbrella terms, such as threat
analysis and intelligence, malware analysis, mobile security, fraud analysis
and detection, web- and social-network security and data visualization.
A distinctive aspect of my work is that I always strive to follow data-driven
or learning-based approaches. Indeed, I enjoy doing large-scale measurements.

Before joining Trend Micro, until Summer 2016 I was an Assistant Professor at
[Dipartimento di Elettronica, Informazione e Bioingegneria
(DEIB)](http://www.deib.polimi.it), [Politecnico di Milano](http://polimi.it)
in Italy, where I co-directed the system-security group at the [NECST
Laboratory](http://necst.it), and led several projects with my colleague and
advisor [Stefano Zanero](http://zanero.org). During my PhD (obtained Cum Laude
at Politecnico di Milano), I made contributions in the field of anomaly
detection: I developed and tested anomaly-based tools to mitigate Internet
threats by (1) avoiding their spread via vulnerable web applications, (2)
detecting unexpected activities in the operating system’s kernel (sing of
malware infections or compromised processes), and (3) dealing with high number
of alerts using alert correlation.

I had extensive collaboration with the academic security community (e.g., UCSB,
FORTH, NEU, Stony Brook, KU Leven, and RHUL), and with the security industry,
as consultant. I have given several lectures and talks as an invited speaker at
international venues and research schools. When time permits, I occasionally
play CTFs with the [Tower of Hanoi](http://toh.necst.it/) team. Honestly, I
haven't been playing for a looong long time: I think 2004 or something, when we
played one of the very first editions of the [UCSB
iCTF](https://ictf.cs.ucsb.edu/pages/archive.html). With the same team, in 2015
I have led the organization of the successful [PoliCTF](http://polictf.it/)
contest. I served in the review boards or organizing committees of well-known
conferences. To name a few, I have been the General Chair of DIMVA 2015, PC
chair of EUC 2014 and PC member of several conferences and workshops including
ACSAC, AsiaCCS, TRUST, MALCON, DIMVA, CSS, SecureComm, WISTP. Moreover, I have
been actively involved in 3 successful EU projects under the FP7, and 1
national project under the prestigious FIR program.
